# **Configuring Kubectl to Access a Remote Cluster**
## **Introduction**

In this lab, we'll configure kubectl on one machine to interact with a Kubernetes cluster on another machine. After completing this lab, you will have hands-on experience in configuring kubectl to connect to a cluster remotely.

We’ll use the `Workspace` server to represent your local workstation. This is the server you will need to log in to so you can configure kubectl. Kubectl is already installed, so you do not need to install it manually.

Open a terminal window and log in via SSH to the `Workspace` server using the public IP and credentials provided on the lab page.

## **Set the kubectl Cluster Data**

First, set `KUBERNETES_PUBLIC_ADDRESS` to the public IP of the Controller server on the lab page:

    KUBERNETES_PUBLIC_ADDRESS=&lt;Controller public IP&gt;

Then, set the cluster data with this:

    kubectl config set-cluster kubernetes-the-hard-way \
      --certificate-authority=ca.pem \
      --embed-certs=true \
      --server=https://${KUBERNETES_PUBLIC_ADDRESS}:6443

You should get the following response:

    Cluster "kubernetes-the-hard-way" set.

### **Set the Credentials for kubectl**
The credentials are the certificate and key files `admin.pem` and `admin-key.pem`. These can be found in the home directory on the `Workspace` server.

Set them up for kubectl like this:

    kubectl config set-credentials admin \
    --client-certificate=admin.pem \
    --client-key=admin-key.pem
You should get the following response:

    User "admin" set.

### **Set the Context for the Cluster**
Set the context like this:

    kubectl config set-context kubernetes-the-hard-way \
      --cluster=kubernetes-the-hard-way \
      --user=admin
You should get the following response:

    Context "kubernetes-the-hard-way" created.

### **Use the New kubectl Context to Check Which Pods Are Currently Running on the Cluster**
Configure kubectl to use the new context like this:

    kubectl config use-context kubernetes-the-hard-way
You should get the following response:

    Switched to context "kubernetes-the-hard-way".
Verify everything is working with:

    kubectl get pods
Since there are no pods right now, you should get the following response:

    No resources found.
This indicates kubectl is set up correctly to access the cluster!

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations on completing this lab!