# **Generating a Data Encryption Config for Kubernetes**
## **Introduction**
Kubernetes offers the ability to encrypt sensitive data at rest. In order to take advantage of this feature, it is necessary to generate an encryption key and a data encryption config. In this hands-on lab, you will learn how to generate an encryption key and a data encryption config file for Kubernetes.

## **Log In to the Environment**
We'll start by logging in to the Workspace server.

1. Navigate to the lab instructions page, and copy the public IP address for the Workspace server to your clipboard.
2. Open your terminal application and run the following command (remember to replace the placeholder with the actual public IP address of the Workspace server):

        ssh cloud_user@&ltPUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS&gt
3. Type yes at the prompt.
4. Enter your password from the lab instructions page when prompted.

We are now successfully logged in to the environment.

## **Generate an Encryption Key and Include It in a Kubernetes Data Encryption Config File**
The first step is to create an encryption key. We will also set it to an environment variable so we can include the encryption key in our config file.

1. Run the following command to generate the random string we'll use for our encryption key:
        
        ENCRYPTION_KEY=$(head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64)

2. Use the **echo** command to view the random string we just generated.

        echo $ENCRYPTION_KEY

3. Then, use the following command to generate our config file:

        cat > encryption-config.yaml << EOF
        kind: EncryptionConfig
        apiVersion: v1
        resources:
        - resources:
            - secrets
            providers:
            - aescbc:
                keys:
                    - name: key1
                    secret: ${ENCRYPTION_KEY}
            - identity: {}
        EOF

## **Copy the File to the Kubernetes Controller Servers**
The next step is to copy **encryption-config.yaml** to each Kubernetes controller server.

1. Go back to the lab instructions page, and copy the public IP address for Controller 0.
2. Then run the following command (be sure to replace the placeholder with the actual IP address of Controller 0):
        
        scp encryption-config.yaml cloud_user@&ltCONTROLLER0_PUBLIC_IP&gt:~/

3. Type **yes** at the prompt.
4. Enter your password when prompted.
5. Then, run the following command to copy the encryption config file to the Controller 1 server (be sure to replace the placeholder with the actual IP address of Controller 1:

        scp encryption-config.yaml cloud_user@&ltCONTROLLER1_PUBLIC_IP&gt:~/

6. Type **yes** at the prompt.
7. Enter your password when prompted.

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations, you've successfully completed this lab!