# **Bootstrapping an etcd Cluster for Kubernetes**
## **Introduction**
Kubernetes uses etcd to reliably store data in a distributed fashion. One of the necessary steps for setting up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch is to configure an etcd cluster that spans all of the Kubernetes control nodes.

In this hands-on lab, we will install and configure an etcd cluster.

## **Log In to the Environment**
### **Log In to the Controller0 Server**
1. Navigate to the lab instructions page, and copy the Controller0 Public IP address to your clipboard.
2. Open your terminal application and run the following command:
    
        ssh cloud_user@&lt;CONTROLLER0_PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS&gt;
3. Type **yes** at the prompt.
4. Enter your password from the lab instructions page when prompted.

### **Log In to the Controller1 Server**
1. Go back to the lab instructions page, and copy the Controller1 Public IP address to your clipboard.
2. Open a new window of your terminal application and run the following command:

        ssh cloud_user@&lt;CONTROLLER1_PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS&gt;
3. Type **yes** at the prompt.
4. Enter your password from the lab instructions page when prompted.

We are now successfully logged in to the cloud server environment.

## **Install the etcd Binary on Both Control Nodes**
1. In your first terminal window, run the following command to download the etcd archive:

        wget -q --show-progress --https-only --timestamping \
        "https://github.com/coreos/etcd/releases/download/v3.3.5/etcd-v3.3.5-linux-amd64.tar.gz"

2. Extract the etcd archive.

        tar -xvf etcd-v3.3.5-linux-amd64.tar.gz

3. Move the extracted files to the **/usr/local/bin/** directory.

        sudo mv etcd-v3.3.5-linux-amd64/etcd* /usr/local/bin/
4. Enter your password at the prompt.
5. Repeat these steps in your second terminal window.

## **Configure and Start the etcd Service on Both Control Nodes**
1. In your first terminal window, run the following command to create the **/etc/etcd** and **/var/lib/etcd** directories:

        sudo mkdir -p /etc/etcd /var/lib/etcd
2. List the contents of the home directory to view the certificate and key files we'll need to configure and run the etcd service.

        ls
3. Copy the **ca.pem**, **kubernetes-key.pem**, and **kubernetes.pem** files to the **/etc/etcd/** directory.

        sudo cp ca.pem kubernetes-key.pem kubernetes.pem /etc/etcd/
4. Set the following environment variables (be sure to replace the placeholders with their actual values):

        ETCD_NAME=controller-0
        INTERNAL_IP=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4)
        CONTROLLER_0_INTERNAL_IP=&lt;CONTROLLER0_PRIVATE_IP&gt;
        CONTROLLER_1_INTERNAL_IP=&lt;CONTROLLER1_PRIVATE_IP&gt;

5. Create the ectd systemd unit file.

        cat << EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/etcd.service
        [Unit]
        Description=etcd
        Documentation=https://github.com/coreos

        [Service]
        ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/etcd \\
        --name ${ETCD_NAME} \\
        --cert-file=/etc/etcd/kubernetes.pem \\
        --key-file=/etc/etcd/kubernetes-key.pem \\
        --peer-cert-file=/etc/etcd/kubernetes.pem \\
        --peer-key-file=/etc/etcd/kubernetes-key.pem \\
        --trusted-ca-file=/etc/etcd/ca.pem \\
        --peer-trusted-ca-file=/etc/etcd/ca.pem \\
        --peer-client-cert-auth \\
        --client-cert-auth \\
        --initial-advertise-peer-urls https://${INTERNAL_IP}:2380 \\
        --listen-peer-urls https://${INTERNAL_IP}:2380 \\
        --listen-client-urls https://${INTERNAL_IP}:2379,https://127.0.0.1:2379 \\
        --advertise-client-urls https://${INTERNAL_IP}:2379 \\
        --initial-cluster-token etcd-cluster-0 \\
        --initial-cluster controller-0=https://${CONTROLLER_0_INTERNAL_IP}:2380,controller-1=https://${CONTROLLER_1_INTERNAL_IP}:2380 \\
        --initial-cluster-state new \\
        --data-dir=/var/lib/etcd
        Restart=on-failure
        RestartSec=5

        [Install]
        WantedBy=multi-user.target
        EOF

6. Enable and start the etcd service.

        sudo systemctl daemon-reload
        sudo systemctl enable etcd
        sudo systemctl start etcd

7. Verify that the etcd cluster is working correctly.

        sudo ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl member list \
        --endpoints=https://127.0.0.1:2379 \
        --cacert=/etc/etcd/ca.pem \
        --cert=/etc/etcd/kubernetes.pem \
        --key=/etc/etcd/kubernetes-key.pem

8.Repeat these steps in your second terminal window. (Be sure to replace **controller-0** with **controller-1** in the first line of the command in Step 4.)

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations, you've successfully completed this hands-on lab!