# **Deploying a Pod to a Node with a Label in Kubernetes**

We have been given a Kubernetes cluster to inspect. In order to better understand the layout and the structure of this cluster, we must run the appropriate commands.

## **Additional Resources**
You have been tasked with creating a pod named **nginx**, which needs to use the **nginx** image. This pod needs to run on a node that has solid state drives (SSD). Luckily, the nodes have already been labeled with the disk type. You must find the node with the label **disk=ssd** from within the provided Kubernetes cluster. Then, you will create the pod YAML which will force the pod to use the node with that label. Finally, you will apply the YAML to the Kubernetes cluster and verify that the pod is running on the correct node.

In order to complete this hands-on lab:

- List the labels for all nodes in the cluster
- Create the pod YAML that will choose to run on the node labeled **disk=ssd**
- Apply the YAML to the Kubernetes cluster
- Verify that the pod is running on the correct node

For more information on creating static pod, see: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/static-pod/

Log in to the Kube Master server using the credentials on the lab page (either in your local terminal, using the Instant Terminal feature, or using the public IP), and work through the objectives listed.

## **List all the nodes in the cluster.**
Use the following command to list the nodes in your cluster:

    kubectl get nodes
            
We should see three nodes: one master and two workers.

## **List all the pods in all namespaces.**

Use the following command to list the pods in all namespaces:

    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces

## **List all the namespaces in the cluster.**

Use the following command to list all the namespaces in the cluster:

    kubectl get namespaces

Here, we should see four namespaces: default, kube-public, kube-system, and kube-node-lease.

## **Check to see if there are any pods running in the default namespace.**
Use the following command to list the pods in the default namespace:

    kubectl get pods
We should see that there aren't any pods in the default namespace.

## **Find the IP address of the API server running on the master node.**

Use the following command to find the IP address of the API server:

    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces -o wide

## **List the labels for all nodes in the cluster**
Use the following command to list the labels for all nodes:

    kubectl get no --show-labels

We should see the label **disk=ssd** for one of the nodes.

## **Create the pod YAML that will run on the node labeled disk=ssd**
Create a file named pod.yaml (**vi pod.yaml**) and paste in the following:

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
    name: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
        - name: nginx
        image: nginx
    nodeSelector:
        disk: ssd

-   ***YML Comment***: 

            Pod 를 특정 Node를 지정해서 위치 시킬 수 있다.
            해당 Pod의 yaml 파일에 Node의 label 값을 지정하면 된다.
            --> spec: 에 nodeSelector : 에 지정


Apply the YAML to the Kubernetes cluster with the following command:

    kubectl apply -f pod.yaml

## **Verify that the pod is running on the correct node**

Verify that pod is on correct node with the following command

    kubectl get po -o wide

You should see the node with the label in the **node** column

## **Conclusion**
That's it — congratulations on completing this lab!