# **Troubleshooting a Broken Kubernetes Application**
## **Introduction**
Kubernetes administrators need to be able to fix issues with applications running in a cluster. This lab will allow you to test your skills when it comes to fixing broken Kubernetes applications. You will be presented with a cluster running a broken application and asked to identify and correct the problem.

## **Solution**
Log in to the server by using the credentials provided:

    ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>.

### **Identify What is Wrong with the Application**
1. Examine the web-consumer deployment, which resides in the web namespace, and its Pods by using 

        kubectl get deployment -n web web-consumer

2. Get more information by using 

        kubectl describe deployment -n web web-consumer 
    
    including container specifications and labels that the Pods are using.

3. Look more closely at the Pods by using 

        kubectl get pods -n web 
    to see if both Pods are up and running.

4. Get more information about the Pods by using 

        kubectl describe pod -n web <POD_NAME>
    
    and evaluate any warning messages that may come up.

5. Look at the logs associated with the container busybox by using 

        kubectl logs -n web <POD_NAME> -c busybox

6. Determine what may be going wrong by reading the output from the container logs.

7. Take a closer look at the pod itself by using 

        kubectl get pod -n web <POD_NAME> -o yaml
    
    to get the data in the yaml format.

8. Determine which command is causing the errors (in this case, the while true; do curl auth-db; sleep 5; done command).

### **Fix the Problem**
1. Take a closer look at the service by using 

        kubectl get svc -n web auth-db

2. Locate where the service is by using 

        kubectl get namespaces 
    and finding the one other non-default namespace called data.

3. Check kubectl get svc -n data and find the auth-db service in this namespace, rather than the web namespace.

4. Start resolving the issue by using kubectl edit deployment -n web web-consumer.

5. In the spec section, scroll down to find the pod template and locate the while true; do curl auth-db; sleep 5; done command.

6. Change the command to while true; do curl auth-db.data.svc.cluster.local; sleep 5; done to give the fully qualified domain name of that service. This will allow the web-consumer deployment's Pods to communicate with the service successfully.

7. Save the file and exit by pressing the ESC key and using :wq.

8. Check kubectl get pods -n web to ensure that the old pods have terminated and the new pods are running successfully.

9. Check the log of one of the new pods by using kubectl logs -n web <POD-NAME> -c busybox. This time the pod should be able to communicate successfully with the service.

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!