# **Locating the Network Information**
## **Introduction**
Being able to locate the IP address, netmask, gateway, DNS nameserver, and domain is critical to understanding Linux networking. In this hands-on lab, we're going to populate a text file with this information.

## **Logging In**
Use the credentials provided in the hands-on lab overview page to log into the lab server with SSH.

## **Getting Comfortable**
Once we're in, we've got to get a few pieces of information added to a **Network.txt** file in our home directory. We're going to use an nmcli command each time. We may want to have two terminals open, one to edit the text file (with whichever text editor we want) and the other to run commands and get output.

First, let's see if NetworkManager is even running:

    [cloud_user@host]$ systemctl status NetworkManager

That will show us that is it. Now let's get a list of active connections.

    [cloud_user@host]$ nmcli c show

We'll see a line for ens5. That's the one we're going to be querying.

## **Get the Information**
This is actually pretty easy. Let's run this one command:

    [cloud_user@host]$ nmcli d show ens5

## **Conclusion**
The information we need is in this output. The IP address and netmask (IPV4.ADDRESS1), gateway address (IPV4.GATEWAY), DNS server (IPV4.DNS1), and DNS domain (IPV4.DOMAIN1) are all there. To get a passing grade on the lab, just get those values from the command output and get them into the proper lines of the Network.txt file. Then we're done. Congratulations!