# **Using PersistentVolumes in Kubernetes**
## **Introduction**
PersistentVolumes provide a way to treat storage as a dynamic resource in Kubernetes. This lab will allow you to demonstrate your knowledge of PersistentVolumes. You will mount some persistent storage to a container using a PersistentVolume and a PersistentVolumeClaim.

## **Solution**
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:

        ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>

### **Create a PersistentVolume That Allows Claim Expansion**
1. Create a custom Storage Class by using `vi localdisk.yml`.

2. Define the Storage Class by using:

        apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1 
        kind: StorageClass 
        metadata: 
        name: localdisk 
        provisioner: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
        allowVolumeExpansion: true

3. Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.

4. Finish creating the Storage Class by using 

        kubectl create -f localdisk.yml

5. Create the PersistentVolume by using 

        vi host-pv.yml

6. Define the PersistentVolume with a size of 1Gi by using:

        kind: PersistentVolume 
        apiVersion: v1 
        metadata: 
        name: host-pv 
        spec: 
        storageClassName: localdisk
        persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Recycle 
        capacity: 
            storage: 1Gi 
        accessModes: 
            - ReadWriteOnce 
        hostPath: 
            path: /var/output

7. Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.

8. Finish creating the PersistentVolume by using 

        kubectl create -f host-pv.yml.

9. Check the status of the PersistenVolume by using 

        kubectl get pv.

### *Create a PersistentVolumeClaim*
1. Start creating a PersistentVolumeClaim for the PersistentVolume to bind to by using 

        vi host-pvc.yml.

2. Define the PersistentVolumeClaim with a size of 100Mi by using:

        apiVersion: v1 
        kind: PersistentVolumeClaim 
        metadata: 
        name: host-pvc 
        spec: 
        storageClassName: localdisk 
        accessModes: 
        - ReadWriteOnce 
        resources: 
        requests: 
            storage: 100Mi

3. Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.

4. Finish creating the PersistentVolumeClaim by using 

        kubectl create -f host-pvc.yml.

5. Check the status of the PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim to verify that they have been bound:

        kubectl get pv

        kubectl get pvc
### **Create a Pod That Uses a PersistentVolume for Storage**

1. Create a Pod that uses the PersistentVolumeClaim by using 

        vi pv-pod.yml.

2. Define the Pod by using:

        apiVersion: v1 
        kind: Pod 
        metadata: 
        name: pv-pod 
        spec: 
        containers: 
            - name: busybox 
                image: busybox 
                command: ['sh', '-c', 'while true; do echo Success! > /output/success.txt; sleep 5; done'] 

3. Mount the PersistentVolume to the /output location by adding the following, which should be level with the containers spec in terms of indentation:

        volumes: 
        - name: pv-storage 
        persistentVolumeClaim: 
            claimName: host-pvc

4. In the containers spec, below the command, set the list of volume mounts by using:

        volumeMounts: 
        - name: pv-storage 
        mountPath: /output 

5. Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.

6. Finish creating the Pod by using 

        kubectl create -f pv-pod.yml.

7. Check that the Pod is up and running by using 

        kubectl get pods.

8. If you wish, you can log in to the worker node and verify the output data by using 

        cat /var/output/success.txt.

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!