# **Exploring Kubernetes Networking**
## **Introduction**
Kubernetes networking is a deep and varied subject. In this lab, you will test your knowledge of Kubernetes networking by implementing a networking solution. You will also verify two pods can communicate with one another via your virtual container network.
## **Solution**
Log in to the lab server using the credentials provided:

    ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>

### **Fix the Issue Causing Pods Not to Start Up**
1. List the pods to check their status:

        kubectl get pods

2. Check the node status:

        kubectl get nodes
        
    It looks like the nodes are NotReady.
3. Describe a node to see if you can get more info:
        
        kubectl describe node k8s-worker1
        
    It looks like kube-proxy, a component that handles networking-related tasks, is stuck starting up.

4. Check the status of the networking plugin pods:

        kubectl get pods -n kube-system
    The networking pods seem to be missing. Most likely, a networking plugin was never installed.


5. Install the Calico networking plugin:

        kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.14/manifests/calico.yaml

6. Check the status of the Nodes and Pods again:

        kubectl get nodes
    They should both be Ready after about a minute.kubectl get pods

### **Verify You Can Communicate between Pods Using the Cluster Network**
1. Verify the two pods can communicate over the network:

        kubectl get pods -o wide
2. Run curl on the IP address of the cyberdyne-frontend Pod (which will be listed in the output from the previous command):

        kubectl exec testclient -- curl <cyberdyne-frontend_POD_IP>
    The result should be HTML of an Nginx page, meaning the Pods are able to communicate.

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations on successfully completing this hands-on lab!