# **Deploying a Simple Service to Kubernetes**

## **Introduction**
Deployments and services are at the core of what makes Kubernetes a great way to manage complex application infrastructures. In this hands-on lab, you will have an opportunity to get hands-on with a Kubernetes cluster and build a simple deployment, coupled with a service providing access to it. You will create a deployment and a service which can be accessed by other pods in the cluster.

## **Additional Resources**
Your team manages an online storefront. They want to have a simple service in their Kubernetes cluster that is able to provide a list of products. Other pieces of the application, running as other pods in the cluster, will use this service in the future. For now, all you need to do is deploy the service's pods to the cluster and create a Kubernetes service to provide access to those pods. The team estimates that you will need four replicas of the service pod for the time being. There is already a busybox testing pod in the cluster that you can use to test your new service once it is created.

There is a public Docker image for the store-products app called **linuxacademycontent/store-products:1.0.0**.

You will need to do the following:

- **Create a deployment for the store-products service with four replicas.**
- **Create a store-products service and verify that you can access it from the busybox testing pod.**

If you need additional guidance, click the icon next to each task below for more information on how to complete each task. You can also check out the solution video for a detailed walkthrough. Note: this lab does not require root login.


## **Solution**
1. Begin by logging in to the Kubernetes Master server using the credentials provided on the hands-on lab page:

        ssh cloud_user@PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS

## **Create a deployment for the store-products service with four replicas**
1. Log in to the Kube master node.
2. Create the deployment with four replicas:

        cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
        apiVersion: apps/v1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
        name: store-products
        labels:
            app: store-products
        spec:
        replicas: 4
        selector:
            matchLabels:
            app: store-products
        template:
            metadata:
            labels:
                app: store-products
            spec:
            containers:
            - name: store-products
                image: linuxacademycontent/store-products:1.0.0
                ports:
                - containerPort: 80
        EOF
## **Create a store-products service and verify that you can access it from the busybox testing pod**
1. Create a service for the store-products pods:

        cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
        kind: Service
        apiVersion: v1
        metadata:
        name: store-products
        spec:
        selector:
            app: store-products
        ports:
        - protocol: TCP
            port: 80
            targetPort: 80
        EOF
2. Make sure the service is up in the cluster:

        kubectl get svc store-products
    The output will look something like this:

        NAME             TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
        store-products   ClusterIP   10.104.11.230   <none>        80/TCP    59s
3. Use **kubectl exec** to query the store-products service from the busybox testing pod.

        kubectl exec busybox -- curl -s store-products

## **Conclusion**
Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!