# **Deploying a Microservice Application to Kubernetes**
## **Introduction**
Microservice applications can be quite complex but that complexity can offer many benefits. Kubernetes can help you take advantage of those benefits by making these complex infrastructures easier to manage through automation. In this hands-on lab, you will see the value of Kubernetes firsthand as you deploy a complex microservice architecture to the cluster and then independently scale some of its components.

## **Additional Resources**
Your team manages an online storefront called Stan's Robot Shop. Your company sells robots, and the team has built a rather complex micrservice-based application in order to serve the online store. You have been given the task of deploying this application to the cluster. Luckily, there are some pre-made Kubernetes YAML descriptors to make this easier, contained in a Git repository at https://github.com/linuxacademy/robot-shop.

However, the team anticipates that the search feature of the online store will need to handle some additional load soon after the store launches. After deploying the app, you will need to scale up the MongoDB service responsible for handling product searches.

Credit for the open source Stan's Robot Shop sample app goes to the folks at Instana!

You will need to do the following:

- **Deploy the Stan's Robot Shop app to the cluster.**
- **Scale up the MongoDB service to two replicas instead of just one.**

Once the app is deployed, you should be able to reach it in a browser using the Kube master node's public IP: http://$kube_master_public_ip:30080

If you need additional guidance, click the icon next to each task below for more information on how to complete each task. You can also check out the solution video for a detailed walkthrough.

## **Solution**

1. Begin by logging in to the lab server using the credentials provided on the hands-on lab page:

        ssh cloud_user@PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS
## **Deploy the Stan's Robot Shop app to the cluster**
1. Clone the Git repo that contains the pre-made descriptors:

        cd ~/
        git clone https://github.com/linuxacademy/robot-shop.git
    
    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - 테스트 환경에서는 master node에 복사하는데 실제 상황에서는 jenkins 등을 통해 클러스터에 배포하는 방식으로 수행 필요

         
2. Since this application has many components, it is a good idea to create a separate namespace for the app:

        kubectl create namespace robot-shop

    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - 어플리케이션 배포 전에는 namespace 로 구분을 해 주는 것을 먼저 해야됨

3. Deploy the app to the cluster:

        kubectl -n robot-shop create -f ~/robot-shop/K8s/descriptors/

    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - robot-shop/K8s/descriptors/ 디렉토리안에 배포에 필요한 yaml 파일들이 다 있음


4. Check the status of the application's pods:

        kubectl get pods -n robot-shop

5. You should be able to reach the robot shop app from your browser using the Kube master node's public IP:

        http://$kube_master_public_ip:30080

## **Scale up the MongoDB deployment to two replicas instead of just one**

1. Edit the deployment descriptor:

        kubectl edit deployment mongodb -n robot-shop

2. You should see some YAML describing the deployment object.

    - Under **spec:**, look for the line that says **replicas: 1** and change it to **replicas: 2**.
    - Save and exit.

    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - MongoDB pod 를 1개에서 2개로 scale-out 하는 것을 yaml 파일 수정을 통해 바로 적용
            - Save 하고 나오면 자동으로 적용됨 --> yaml 파일이 수정되면 바로 적용?

3. Check the status of the deployment with:

        kubectl get deployment mongodb -n robot-shop

    After a few moments, the number of available replicas should be 2.

## **Conclusion**

Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!