# **Creating a Kubernetes Cluster**
## **Introduction**
In this hands-on lab, we will install and configure a Kubernetes cluster consisting of 1 master and 2 nodes. Once the installation and configuration are complete, we will have a 3-node Kubernetes cluster that uses Flannel as the network overlay.

## **Logging In**
Use the credentials provided on the hands-on lab overview page to log into the master and server nodes as cloud_user. It's probably a good idea to have three terminals open, one for each node.

## **Install Docker and Kubernetes on All Servers**
Most of these commands need to be run on each of the nodes. Pay attention though. Down at Step 10, we are going to do a little bit on just the master, and down at Step 15 we'll run something on just the nodes. There are notes down there, just be watching for them.

1. Once we have logged in, we need to elevate privileges using sudo:

        sudo su  
2. Disable SELinux:

        setenforce 0
        sed -i --follow-symlinks 's/SELINUX=enforcing/SELINUX=disabled/g' /etc/sysconfig/selinux
    
    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - 실환경에서는 이렇게 안한다? 테스트 환경아러 SELinux 를 disable 시키는 이유는 ?

3. Enable the **br_netfilter** module for cluster communication:

        modprobe br_netfilter
        echo '1' > /proc/sys/net/bridge/bridge-nf-call-iptables

4. Ensure that the Docker dependencies are satisfied:

        yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2

5. Add the Docker repo and install Docker:

        yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
        yum install -y docker-ce

6. Set the cgroup driver for Docker to systemd, reload systemd, then enable and start Docker:

        sed -i '/^ExecStart/ s/$/ --exec-opt native.cgroupdriver=systemd/' /usr/lib/systemd/system/docker.service
        systemctl daemon-reload
        systemctl enable docker --now
    
    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - 결과 Check
            $ systemctl status docker
            $ docker info | grep -i cgroup

7. Add the Kubernetes repo:

        cat << EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
        [kubernetes]
        name=Kubernetes
        baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
        enabled=1
        gpgcheck=0
        repo_gpgcheck=0
        gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg
          https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
        EOF

8. Install Kubernetes:

        yum install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl

9. Enable the **kubelet** service. The **kubelet** service will fail to start until the cluster is initialized, this is expected:

        systemctl enable kubelet

  **Note: Complete the following section on the MASTER ONLY!**

10. Initialize the cluster using the IP range for Flannel:

        kubeadm init --pod-network-cidr=10.244.0.0/16

11. Copy the kubeadmn join command that is in the output. We will need this later.

12. Exit sudo, copy the admin.conf to your home directory, and take ownership.

        mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
        sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
        sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config

13. Deploy Flannel:

        kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/flannel/master/Documentation/kube-flannel.yml

    -   ***YML Comment***: 

            - Network Overlay 로 Flannel 말고 다른 것을 설치 할 수 있는지 ?
            
14. Check the cluster state:

        kubectl get pods --all-namespaces

**Note: Complete the following steps on the NODES ONLY!**

15. Run the **join** command that you copied earlier, this requires running the command prefaced with sudo on the nodes (if we hadn't run sudo su to begin with). Then we'll check the nodes from the master.

        kubectl get nodes

## **Create and Scale a Deployment Using kubectl**
**Note: These commands will only be run on the master node.**

1. Create a simple deployment:

        kubectl create deployment nginx --image=nginx

2. Inspect the pod:

        kubectl get pods

3. Scale the deployment:

        kubectl scale deployment nginx --replicas=4

4. Inspect the pods. We should have four now:

        kubectl get pods

## **Conclusion**
We got it done. We've created Kubernetes cluster, and deployed Nginx on it. Then we scaled up to four pods. Congratulations!